# Genetic Algorithm Optimization

A genetic algorithm is a metaheuristic optimization algorithm based on the principles of natural selection and genetics. It starts with an initial population of individuals, each representing a possible solution to the problem being solved. Each individual has a fitness value, which is a measure of how good the solution is. The algorithm then repeatedly applies genetic operators such as selection, crossover, and mutation to the population to generate new offspring populations. The offspring population is evaluated using the fitness function, and the best individuals are selected to become the parents for the next generation.

In this particular code, the genetic algorithm is being used to optimize a fitness function, which is defined as x**2. The pop_size parameter sets the size of the initial population, and the num_generations parameter sets the number of generations the algorithm will run for. The mutation_rate parameter sets the probability of mutation for each individual in the population.

The initial population is generated by randomly selecting values between -10 and 10. The fitness_values list is then created by applying the fitness function to each individual in the population. The parent_probs list is created by dividing each individual's fitness by the total fitness of the population. This is used to perform roulette wheel selection, where each individual has a probability of being selected as a parent proportional to its fitness.

Offspring is created by performing single-point crossover on pairs of parents, and mutation is performed by randomly resetting an individual's value with a probability equal to mutation_rate.

The best individual in each generation is printed using the tqdm.write() function, which displays the progress of the algorithm in a progress bar.

## Prerequisites

This code requires Python 3.x and the following libraries:

- `random`
- `tqdm`

You can install these libraries using pip:

`pip install random tqdm`


## Usage

To use this code, simply run the `genetic_algorithm.py` script. The genetic algorithm parameters (population size, number of generations, and mutation rate) can be modified by changing the values of the corresponding variables at the top of the script. The fitness function can also be modified by changing the code in the `fitness` function.

## License

This code is licensed under the MIT License. See the `LICENSE` file for more information.
